I'm going to jump into chapter four,
null safety.
So let's try to analyze the idea first.
So I'm going to add a couple of
lines here so you don't see that.
So when you create the variable in Swift,
I am creating a variable.
For example, let's do this.
I'm going to create a class even
if we haven't seen classes yet.
But we create the class Person.
We use code block and
create the variable with a name, okay?
And say the name is going to be a String.
If I do this, it's giving me an error.
It's saying, hey,
class person has no initializer.
By the way, an initializer is
another name for a constructor.
In Swift, we call constructors,
initializer.
But why is it saying this?
Because it says that the property
name has no initial value.
So I actually need to receive
that value in the initializer or
set it in the initializer.
It's complaining because if I say that the
name is a string, I must have a string.
It cannot be nil or null,
in Swift we use nil.
So actually,
I cannot live without the value.
It needs a value.
But sometimes we have the situation where
semantically, that value is optional.
In that case,
we said that with a question mark, okay?
So at the end of the type,
we'll use a question mark.
So it can be a string or nil.
It's called nil, not null here, okay?
So now by default, it's going to be nil.
And if you want,
you can add value to it, okay?
So on every type, I mean,
you can also have a double.
For example, it can have a coordinate, and
say, okay, it's a double of two integers.
And I can say, okay, it can also be null.
It's optional, or
I can have even optionals on each type.
For example, the first one is mandatory
and the second one is optional.
So I can use these question
marks on every type, okay?
Saying that the value for
the type is optional, okay?
Does it make sense?
For now it feels okay.
It's not actually a big deal,
it sounds cool.
But then we start with some problems.
For example, if I have a name,
that it's going to be a string or
nil, I cannot call a property or a method.
For example, count is how you
count characters on a string.
By the way, it's also how you
count items in a collection.
It's dot count, not dot length.
But it's saying, hey, no,
I cannot give you the count,
the amount of characters,
because maybe the name is nil,
okay, so we have a problem.
Does it makes sense?
There are two ways to solve the problem,
because it says, hey,
maybe it's nil, so
maybe there are no characters.
One solution is to use
an exclamation mark.
The exclamation mark will treat
the optional as non-optional.
Will actually say, okay,
there is a value there, so go and
get the amount of characters.
What happens if it's nil?
Like in this case,
your app will crash because this
is like in Java,
the null pointer exception, okay?
The difference here is that this is not
an exception, we cannot trap it so easily.
Actually, your app will crash.
And if your app crashes on iOS at least,
it will actually be closed.
Probably you've seen that as a user both
on Android or iOS, that you were using
an app and then the app disappears
magically, but that's actually a crash.
So we should use this exclamation
mark with a lot of care.
Actually, it's kind of a bad practice
to use it like this unless you know for
sure as a developer,
that if the execution gets into line 30,
there is a value in that name, okay?
Another option that we have
is to use another operator is
called the safe operator.
It's question mark dot.
Question mark dot will actually treat
that, Optional as optional.
And this is like asking, okay,
if it's not nil, get the count,
and if it's nil, return nil or
do nothing, okay?
So for example, what happens if I
create a variable here, like this.
I call the variable count,
and I'm saying its name.
Remember, here I'm using
exclamation mark not question mark.
So if I look at the type,
it's actually an integer, okay?
It's an integer, for sure.
But if I use now, question mark,
okay, instead of exclamation mark,
if I see the type, look the difference.
The type is integer optional.
Why?
Does anyone know why it has
a question mark, that type?
Because it can be nil,
the name can be nil.
If it's nil, there is no count.
So if there is no count,
there is no integer.
So the type that is automatically
inferred here, it's optionally integer.
Okay, so
that's another option that you have.
So I'm going to create
all the possible options.
So this is called the safe operator.
Then we have the explicit unwrap or
optional unwrap.
There is a question mark,
like countForSure, like so.
And also we have another operator
that is useful for default values.
Okay, so I will say,
countOrDefault is equal to name.count.
It's some kinda fun or 0.
It's double question mark, okay?
But here he's saying, hey,
you need to do this So actually,
this is actually verifying if
the previous expression is not nil.
If it's not nil, it's going to
return that expression, if not,
it's going to return to 0,
the default value.
Okay, so
it's similar to the ternary operator.
By the way, the ternary operator exist.
So for example, countOrDefault2.
I can say, if name?.count is not nil,
then return name?.count if not 0.
But you can see that this one is
actually much better, it's the same.
It's actually doing the same, okay?
By the way, this operator is also now
available in another languages including
JavaScript.
Okay, then the name of the operator
defers per language, but anyway.
And the last thing that I wanna
show you about null safety,
something that we will use
later is called if let.
It's difficult to get the first time and
probably the next ten times as well.
But then you will get it.
So we can create variables,
inside if expressions,
with length, if length.
So, I can create the variable like this,
if let, let's say nonOptionalName = name.
So this is what will happen,
if let will create a variable,
in this case a constant.
An immutable variable
within the scope of the if.
So the scope of this nonOptionalName
variable is just the if, okay?
Not outside the if, so
it's not available outside.
I don't have this nonOptionalName.
It doesn't exist, okay?
It only exists within the if.
So if I put it here,
it's actually working now.
And if I do .count, it works.
So let's see what happens.
The type of the name,
it's actually a String optional.
The type of nonOptionalName,
it's a string, it's not optional anymore.
Okay, so what's going on?
This if is creating about a new variable,
if the name is not nil.
So that means that the else
means that there is no name.
Give me a minute.
I already said that this is weird, okay?
So what is doing this is creating a new
variable is unwrapping the optional.
And if it's nil, so if it was optional,
it goes to the else.
Okay, it goes to a false condition.
So within the if now,
we don't have optionals.
We know that there is a value.
And most of the time,
we don't change the name, we do this.
That's the part where
it comes even weirder.
So if let name = name
actually creates a new local
variable to the if with the same name,
but now it's not optional.
The deal here is that we
are removing the optional.
Does it make sense?
So now there are two variables with the
same name, but they have different scopes.
We have one that the scope is the if and
the other one that is the scope.
So the one that is the inner
scope is not optional.
So then we don't need to mess
with the exclamation mark, okay,
or question mark, or default values,
it becomes clearer with less,
let's say, less symbols, yeah.
>> So this feels like the colon
in JavaScript of if name, right?
So does it exist?
>> Yeah, with a difference.
Yeah, it's something like that.
Yeah, or if it's not undefined,
if you wanna be more specific,
yeah, in JavaScript,
it will be something like this,
yeah, sure, yeah
>> We can always check that
name is an object or not.
>> We don't know if it's in a string,
so actually it's not an object.
So you can always do this name not nil,
but if you do this inside,
you still need to mess
with the exclamation mark.
So actually, these two codes are the same.
So these two blocks,
these two ifs are doing the same thing.
But the idea of using this if let is
to make the code less symbolic so
we don't have any exclamation mark or
question mark with the if let.
It's just that.
You're not forced to use that, okay?
It's just something that we have
as a tool to work with options.
You need to get used to that, okay?
So it takes some time to
get used to that if let,
mostly when you're using
the same variable name, okay,
which is kind of why are we doing this
when we are unwrapping the optional?
And if there is no value, it goes
to the else, that's the idea, yeah.
>> Jumping ahead of you, but
would you use guards as well?
>> We have something known as guards, it's
available, I will show you that later.
We're not going to use today any guard,
but just because you mentioned that,
let me show you that.
There is also another
expression known as guard.
Guard is more suitable for
error management.
So we'll check that the condition is met.
For example, I know that,
let's make the guard here,
that it's not nil or here anyway.
When we know it's not nil because I
wanna get rid of the nil problem.
So I can say that I need
the name to be greater than 3.
What we are, it's like an if, okay,
but there are a lot of differences.
First, we don't have a code block,
there is no cold block for the true value.
Actually, what we are saying
is we actually nil this.
We nil the count of characters or
the amount of characters of
this name to be greater than 3.
We nil this.
If that's not the case, we have the else.
And on the else,
we must throw an exception or
return because there is no way
to continue the execution.
We can also do this, let count =
name.count or something like that.
And this is more advanced and
advanced with topic to be honest, so
it's part of answering the question.
The only difference with the if
is that when you do if let,
the variable,
the scope of the variable is the if.
When you use guard, the variable,
the scope of the variable
is actually in this case,
the outer scope, okay?
So that's how guard works in Swift, okay?
Anyway, we're going to see
later that with Swift UI and
that's our guard today,
we don't have a lot of use cases for this.
So we're not going to use guard later.
But the guard must throw an exception or
they must return in the else.
So it's more for
preconditions that must be defined.
So these preconditions must
be true because if not,
I'm not going to continue
executing this code.
>> Okay, it's around error management.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay, you are welcome.
Any other question, yeah?
>> So when you're in the if let scope,
if you do a return, not necessarily in
the guard, but if you do a return,
it's returning out of the let and
also out of whatever it's-
>> Return always return in the function.
So it works only if you have a function.
So here if I use returns though, so
maybe you're looking for
break more than return that is available.
Okay, so if you wanna break
the current loop in a while,
there are a couple of
situations where we have break.
You have four through also,
there are some things.
But typically, we are not going
to use it mostly in Swift UI,
mostly in Swift UI because Swift UI, we're
going to see is more functional based.
So it's using more functional priming
ideas where we don't use this, okay?
But if you're doing more classic
UI kit development, yeah,
maybe you have more of these situations.